h1. Play! Framework unobtrusive scripting adapter for jQuery

by *Rafael Felini*
"http://github.com/rafaelfelini":http://github.com/rafaelfelini

h2. Description

playujs is a port of railsujs, bringing all the features of railsujs to play.

h2. Prerequisites

Play! 1.2.x
jQuery 1.6.0 or later


h2. Install the module

Install the playujs module from the modules repository:

bc. play install playujs


h2. Enable the module

After installing the module, add the following to your conf/dependencies.yml to enable it (don't forget to run play dependencies):

bc. require:
	- play -> playujs


h2. Usage

h3. Javascript

* Import jQuery 1.6.0 or later

bc. <script src="@{'/public/javascripts/jquery-[version].js'}" type="text/javascript"></script>
        
* Import play.js

bc. <script src="@{'/public/javascripts/play.js'}" type="text/javascript"></script>

h3. Html

To perform a ajax you need to use the 'data-remote' attribute on some html elements like, a, form, select, input and textarea.
For select, input and textarea de ajax will be triggered on onchange event of the element.

In a link it would be:

bc. <a href="@{Application.index()}" data-remote="true" data-disable-with="Wait" >Go!</a>

In a form:

bc. <form id="withajax" action="@{Application.index()}" method="post" data-remote="true">
	<input name="param" type="text" value="value" />		
	<input type="submit" data-disable-with="Performing ajax..." value="Go!" />
</form>

h3. Controller

In your controller just call render(); than Play! will automaticaly render the .json template, using content negotiation feature "http://www.playframework.org/documentation/1.2.4/routes#content-negotiation":http://www.playframework.org/documentation/1.2.4/routes#content-negotiation

h3. Template

Here live the fun. In your .json template you will write your javascript that will be executed in the client. And here you can do what you want, trigger an effect, update areas, etc.
When you need to include an template you <b>MUST</b> use the #{escapejs 'yourtemplate.html' /} , that will escapes carriage returns and single and double quotes for JavaScript segments, ensuring that will be a valid javascript.

Example:

bc. $('body').append('#{escapejs "includes/_yourinclude.html" /}');
$('#someform input[name=user]').val('new vaue');

h3. Ajax events

"https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs/wiki/ajax":https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs/wiki/ajax

h2. Source Code

On GitHub "https://github.com/rafaelfelini/playujs":https://github.com/rafaelfelini/playujs

h2. Examples of usage

On GitHub "https://github.com/rafaelfelini/playujs-samples":https://github.com/rafaelfelini/playujs-samples

h2. Credits

* "https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs":https://github.com/rails/jquery-ujs team for the great work with rails.js
